---
title: "PhD Thesis Research"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /research/PhD-thesis
venue: "University 1, Department"
date: 2024-09-25
location: "New York, NY"
---

An intriguing but classical question in probability theory and Operations Research (OR) is the "heavy-traffic" limit process (usually a diffusion process) of some featured queueing processes (eg. a birth-death process), also known as the diffusion approximation in literature. Mathematically, it is to study the continuous limiting process taking limit in a "right" sense of some discrete-stated processes. It can provide insight into (the global, meaning extremely long-time) behavior of a queueing process, by studying its (functional) limit in a "right" sense (i.e., there can be multiple ways of taking limit in a suitable probabilistic or even deterministic sense). 
In particular, the non-negativeness of the pre-limit queueing processes leads to the most prominent feature of its limiting process being "constrained" in a domain instead of moving freely in the whole space. A classical example for this phenomenon in most of the literature is the limiting processes being constrained in the first orthant in the Euclidean space. Therefore the limiting process has to be "reflected" at the boundary of a domain, thus we call this reflected processed. (The word "reflect" is used for historical reasons, although it only means the process is constrained in the domain and blocked by the boundary from going out, instead of the usual meaning of "reflection" in physics.) 
Contribution: This PhD research investigates such kind of limiting processes but in a more general and non-traditional setting, i.e., with the state space of a wedge, and with oblique reflection, compared to the traditional case of the state space being the first orthant. The problem under investigation is formulated as the submartingale problem with drift term in a wedge, which is a way of the mathematical formulation of the reflected Brownian motion with drift. This is also a generalization of the work by [Varadhan and Williams in 1985](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/cpa.3160380405). But a key difference in this Ph.D. research is to include the non-zero drift term. Methodologically, the drift makes the explicit solution to a concerned Laplace equation (a key ingredient in the method in Varadhan and Williams in 1985) not exist, nonetheless it makes the solution's analytic property become unclear and varies from case to case. Physically, the drift can essentially change the long-time behavior of the reflected process, which can beneficially furthermore make the stationary distribution exist. Here we prove the existence and uniqueness properties of this submartingale problem with drift term, strong Markov property, and two types of different Feller properties which are stronger than that in Varadhan and Williams in 1985 even when drift is zero. As well, we provide quantitative properties such as the hitting probability of the vertex of the wedge for the absorption processes and the connection between this solution and the Skorokhod problem.
As a fact, the reflected process under research, i.e., the reflected Brownian motion (RBM), leads to interesting applications in differential geometry. The well-known Gauss-Bonnet formula for the Euler characteristic generalizes to the Gauss-Bonnet-Chern formula for manifolds without boundary. It is noticeable that the discussion of the Gauss-Bonnet-Chern formula with boundary is not as well-populated as the case without the boundary, one reason is the "correction term" on the boundary is not formulated simply. However, this is interesting because RBM provides a new way to compute the boundary term in the Gauss-Bonnet-Chern formula with boundary, as a reference one can see [Du and Hsu 2022](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40304-021-00266-3). This leads to a natural question, also in the scope of the index theorems, that whether there is a probabilistic understanding of the Aityah-Patodi-Singer (APS) index theorem for Dirac operators on spin manifolds with boundary. The question is both tricky and interesting because the "correction term" in the APS is eta-invariant, which is globally defined by the spectrum of the underlying Dirac operator, as opposed to a geometric quantity purely defined on the boundary. If one can see the connection between a proper reflected process and the way of computing the eta-invariant, it will, on one hand, give an innovative understanding to the eta-invariant but also can possibly reveal some interesting "cancellation phenomenon", vividly speaking it is like the contribution of the Dirac operator to the eta-invariant seems like canceled inside the manifold by itself, with the contribution on the boundary remained only. How to understand this possible "cancellation"? This is the core idea of the second part of the thesis research, the key idea is centered on the use of the reflected process and its related probabilistic behavior. An extensive study has been carried out and related intermediate understanding has been exhibited, the focus on the original question also leads to subquestions. Some futuristic research problems are also presented.

Heading 1
======

Heading 2
======

Heading 3
======
